# Success Criterion 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value

## Name

Flutter uses the [Semantics](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/Semantics-class.html) widget. Sometimes widgets themselves have a similar attribute, such as buttons. These widgets have a `toolTip` attribute that allows you to set a name. `Semantics` is then not always necessary. If you still want to use `Semantics` in that case, for example for setting extra functionalities, it is possible to set the `excludeSemantics` attribute to `true` to ignore the semantics of the underlying widgets.

```dart
Semantics(
  label: 'Name',
  child: ListTile(...);
);
```

It is also possible to specify different ways of reading aloud with an `attributedLabel`, for example spelling a certain range in a text. For more information, see [StringAttribute](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/dart-ui/StringAttribute-class.html).

```dart
Semantics(
  attributedLabel: AttributedString('Name', attributes: [
    SpellOutStringAttribute(range: const TextRange(start: 0, end: 3))
   ]),
  child: ListTile(...);
);
```

## Role

In a number of cases, Flutter automatically applies a role. This happens, for example, with Flutter's buttons and text fields. If this is not the case, it is possible to use `Semantics` to indicate a role.

```dart
Semantics(
  image: true,
  child: Image(...),
);
```

## Value

For some widgets in Flutter, the value is assigned automatically. This happens, for example, with `Slider`, `Switch` and `CheckBox`. If this is not the case, or if a different value has to be entered, you can also use `Semantics` with the `value` attribute. As with `label` it is also possible to pass an `attributedValue` to spell part of the value or pronounce it in another language.

It is also possible to set an `increasedValue` and `decreasedValue` or `attributedDecreasedValue` and `attributedIncreasedValue` to indicate what the value will become when the user decreases or increases the value.

Below is an example of an alternative slider where the attributes are assigned with `Semantics`.

```dart
Semantics(
  value: '${(sliderValue * 100).toStringAsFixed(0)} procent',
  increasedValue: '${((sliderValue * 100) + 1).toStringAsFixed(0)} procent',
  decreasedValue: '${((sliderValue * 100) + 1).toStringAsFixed(0)} procent',
  slider: true,
  child: CustomSlider(
    divisions: 100,
    label: 'Name',
    value: sliderValue,
    onChanged: (newValue) {
      setState(() {
        sliderValue = newValue;
      });
    },
  ),
);        
```

It is wise to properly test which widgets themselves have support for extra accessibility features. For example, `Slider` itself includes an ability to speak a custom value.

```dart
Slider(
  label: 'Name',
  value: sliderValue,
  onChanged: (newValue) {
    setState(() {
      sliderValue = newValue;
    });
  },
  semanticFormatterCallback: (value) {
    return '${(value * 100).toStringAsFixed(0)} percent';
  },
),
```
